We'll start with the Start menu.
The historical perspective here is Windows 8 released in August 2012.
If you have previous experience with earlier Windows versions say Windows 95,
Windows 98, Windows NT, those operating systems,
you're used to the Start menu and what Microsoft did with Windows
8 was a dramatic departure where they replaced the Start menu
with what's called the Start screen.
This was quite a failure, and so that's why Windows 8 quickly became Windows 8.
1 where Microsoft started to walk back on the idea of losing the Start menu.
Nowadays in Windows 10,
we finally have the Start menu back much to everyone's joy,
but what they've done, and by they, I mean the Windows development teams,
is that they've given us a hybrid of some of the best of both worlds.
What do I mean?
Well first of all, if you click the Microsoft flag icon,
that is your equivalent of your Start button as it's existed since
Windows 95 and you'll notice that next door to it,
there is ask me anything.
This refers to the ability to just type to search for
the results that you're looking for.
Honestly, I very rarely go through the Start menu to click icons.
I'll tend to just hit the Start key on my keyboard
which will open the Start menu,
type what I'm looking for and press Enter or maybe use the
arrow keys to find the specific program.
Cortana is a feature that we'll look at shortly.
This allows you even to add voice commands to your Windows navigation.
Now you'll notice that we have at the bottom of the Windows 10 Start menu
some fixed items that allow you to adjust your settings,
that's your preferences, File Explorer to browse your files,
Power to sleep the computer, restart it,
or shutdown.
And then of course, we have an arrangement of program icons.
You'll notice that there is some intelligence built
into the Windows 10 Start menu, by default,
your most used programs show up on the top.
You can always click your customizable avatar to get to your account settings,
and then drumroll please,
we have this customizable Start screen area over on the right.
Now it is possible to configure Windows 10 to use the Windows 8
Start screen if you actually are one of those three or four people
on the face of the earth who liked it.
Check the exercise files because I give you a tutorial link there.
But I've come to like this idea, this notion of what are called live tiles.
Instead of a static icon of a program,
you actually have the tile perform dynamically.
So I'm pointing to a sports app and notice that it's
actually giving me live sports headlines.
Similarly, if I have a news app or a weather app,
those live tiles will actually display useful information.
In addition, of course, you can click the tile to enter the program itself,
but one of the beauties of live tiles is that they will give you feedback
that's useful without even necessarily opening the application.
Just by way of history,
the idea behind the Windows 8 Start screen and that notion of live
tiles was part of Microsoft's push to create a single unified
Windows experience across all devices, laptop,
desktop, phone,
there is a Windows phone 10 that's basically a dead operating system now,
but it was an attempt.
There is the tablet version originally Windows 8.
1 for tablets was called Windows RT, that eventually got scrapped.
We still have this move toward a unified Windows interface.
For instance, if you use the XBOX 1 or the XBOX 1X,
you'll find that the tile system there behaves quite similarly to how Windows 10 does for us here on the desktop.